[♪ opening theme song playing]
[tapping on pen]
Did I tell you I own a cat?
You were saying?
[OE] This cop suddenly
started speaking to me.
Then there were two,
and then three of them.
And I thought,
"If they take me in now,
my cat's gonna die."
My place doesn't allow pets.
So you see,
I'm the only one
who knows about it.
[HIGURUMA] In Morioka City,
Iwate Prefecture,
in March of 2016,
two people, a young girl
and her mother,
were found fatally stabbed
in their own home.
The Morioka Prosecutors Office
indicted Keita Oe,
who lived near the crime scene.
He was charged
with felony murder and robbery.
The events leading
to his arrest were thus.
While being questioned
by three officers on patrol,
Keita Oe suddenly fled.
The patrolmen chased Oe
to his home.
Once inside,
the officers discovered
a knife covered in blood.
Oe was arrested
in flagrante delicto.
[PATROLMAN 1] He's in here!
[HIGURUMA] After DNA analysis,
the blood
on the blade was revealed
to be a match
to the victim's DNA.
[slams]
Oe consistently
denied all charges.
Asked to explain the knife,
he insisted...
[OE] I just picked it up.
It wasn't mine.
A little hard to believe,
don't you think so?
He didn't flee questioning
because of his cat,
he fled because he was guilty.
[HIGURUMA] I don't think so.
He had been wrongly detained
by the police before,
when an acquaintance of his
was busted for using drugs.
You're saying the police
traumatized him?
But even so, "I picked it up"?
Who picks up a bloody knife?
No one.
[HIGURUMA] He claims
he was planning to turn it
into the police later.
"Later"?
[HIGURUMA] I know, I know.
His claims are all hard
to believe.
But when you consider
Oe's background,
the fact he works
as a live-in employee
at a non-profit organisation,
it definitely starts sounding
plausible to me.
What kind of non-profit?
[HIGURUMA]
A shelter for the elderly
who have nowhere else to go.
They provide support
for their independent living.
Oe's job was taking care
of the residents
who lived there.
However, they didn't pay him
a salary with wages.
They only supplied him
with goods
like groceries, boxed lunches,
and gifts of pocket money
for New Year's sometimes.
And if you could believe it,
they still charged him
50,000 yen a month
for rent on his room.
[SHIMIZU] Brutal.
Apparently, quite a few
of the residents
have prior records.
Anyway, when asked
why he didn't turn in the knife
as soon as he found it...
The rules say
we can't call cop cars.
Or ambulances either.
They don't want loud sirens
bothering the neighbors.
[SHIMIZU] That non-profit
sounds pretty suspicious.
[HIGURUMA] Yeah.
It's extremely close
to being outright illegal.
Since the earthquake
relief funds
started flowing
into this region,
we've seen an increase
in suspiciously managed NPOs.
So it's possible
the murder weapon
was just lying there.
I think there's a good chance
that Oe is innocent.
First, we'll investigate
the organization's activities
and tax filings.
Then run background checks
on all the residents.
I'll focus on getting
more information out of Oe.
You handle
the investigation, Shimizu.
[SHIMIZU] You're dumping
a huge job like that on me
out of the blue?
[door opens]
[HIGURUMA] And could you
take care of his cat?
[SHIMIZU] His cat?
The commission on
a public defender case is zilch,
no matter how many hours
we bill.
And the public always
assumes they're guilty.
Plus, there's no suspended
sentence in murder cases.
So he could get
the death penalty.
There's nothing to gain
by taking this case.
Higuruma, will you
please explain to me
why you go around
accepting cases like this one?
It's good once in a while.
If we stuck to easy work,
our skills would dull.
[SHIMIZU] It's more
than once in a while.
It's more than once in a while!
[HIGURUMA] You're saying
your thoughts out loud again.
[Takagi laughs]
Sounds like Higuruma
hasn't changed a bit, then.
It's tough working for
an independent lawyer
who isn't in it for the money.
[SHIMIZU] Yeah, well,
at least I'm not stuck
having to run a cafe
on the side like you are.
Hey, wait a minute.
When you say he hasn't changed,
you mean Higuruma's
always been like this?
Hm? Not really.
I think he actually
used to be a lot worse.
[SHIMIZU] Huh?
[TAKAGI]
Back when he was with us,
he was in charge
of a reckless driving case
that resulted in injury.
Specifically,
it was for drunk driving.
The defendant was only 19.
And his co-workers
had coerced him
into doing
both the drinking part
and the driving part.
However, those involved
all aligned their stories,
and he didn't have the money
for a settlement,
and we couldn't get him
a suspended sentence.
[tires screech, crashes]
[CLIENT] You liar!
[breathing heavily]
You promised me
they would find me innocent!
You promised to get
him a suspended sentence,
not an innocent verdict.
Although you didn't manage
to do either, so there's that.
You know what
the takeaway from this is?
Quit being a criminal defense
lawyer for impossible cases.
Trying to save the weak
may be a noble endeavor,
but there's a limit
to what lawyers like us can do
without any cooperation
from the courts and prosecutors.
They don't wanna sit
and hear a client's sob story.
They just wanna
clear their dockets.
It's not worth continuing
when your clients resent you.
[laughing]
[HIGURUMA] They're at the end
of their rope,
both mentally and financially.
I can't blame them
for lashing out at me.
[TAKAGI] But, Higuruma,
what about your mental state?
[HIGURUMA] Well, I'm...
[♪ percussion music playing]
[inaudible]
[snoring softly]
[JUDGE] We the People,
find the defendant...
innocent.
[hushed chatter]
[gasps]
We actually won this case?
[HIGURUMA] Not yet.
They'll appeal right away.
The prosecution is appealing...
[camera clicks]
[SHIMIZU] After the police
searched your room
for stolen items,
nothing was found there.
And in the same
non-profit residence,
another person went missing
right after
the crime was committed.
Luckily, you were caught
on the security feed
of a convenience store.
That and the condition
of the corpses proved
you couldn't have been
at the scene of the murders.
[chuckles] Boy,
it's a good thing
you don't know
how to cook for yourself.
Higuruma, sir.
I wanna thank you
for everything.
There's no need
to call me "sir."
We're not in the clear yet.
There's still the appeal.
That's not what I mean.
You're the only one
who believed me.
Thank you.
[HIGURUMA] While
defense lawyers have to work
with limited budgets
and manpower,
prosecutors can use
taxpayer money
to pour on the lawyers
and dig up the evidence.
That's fine.
It's how the system works.
However,
the prosecutors didn't submit
any new evidence
during the second trial.
The judge accepted
their absurd claim
that there was no reason
to consider the missing person
as a suspect.
So they overturned the verdict.
The highest court
is always the bottleneck
for a third trial.
Most final appeals
are turned away at the door.
It's challenging to even
get a proper trial there.
This trial was destined
for a guilty verdict
from the start.
Why are you...
looking at me that way?
[TAKAGI] But, Higuruma...
what about your mental state?
[birds chirping]
[HIGURUMA] Well,
I'm not trying to promote
the ideals of saving the weak.
It's just always
gone against my nature
to leave things alone
when I feel like they're wrong.
I've just never been able
to fix that habit.
The goddess of justice
blinds her sight
to maintain fairness
under the law.
And people turn a blind eye
to all kinds of things
to protect themselves.
But I don't wanna brush away
the hands of people
who cling to me for help.
The least I can do
is keep my eyes open.
[hushed chatter]
[APPELLATE JUDGE] If there are
any objections to today's trial,
submit your final appeal
in writing within 15 days,
which includes today.
[hushed chatter continues]
[Higuruma sighs]
[gavel banging]
Higuruma, what are you doing?
[HIGURUMA] Everyone come back!
[Shimizu gasps]
We're having a retrial.
- [REMI] Higuruma's in...
- [AMAI] Higuruma's in...
- ...Shinjuku.
- ...Ikebukuro.
- Got it?
- Shinjuku?
I hope Itadori's
headed there, too.
Ikebukuro, huh?
I wonder if Fushiguro's there.
[sighs] Isn't she
running a little late?
That girl better
get here soon or else.
But if she doesn't have
my neck sucker with her,
she'd better not come at all.
- [slaps]
- [man groans]
- Ow. What's your problem?
[AMAI] No, no, no, no!
We ask the questions!
What are you doing
around here, huh?
This is getting old.
[whimpering]
[AMAI]
Why are you keeping quiet?
You're better off
laughing with us.
[STUDENT 1]
What? You gonna hit me?
- [grunts]
- [students laughing]
[AMAI] Oh, dear.
What did I tell you?
Not that I actually told you.
But why can't you understand?
Are you an idiot?
These guys aren't
that smart or athletic,
but they're brimming with pride.
All you have to do
is just match their attitude
and joke around with them,
so you don't hurt
that ego of theirs.
Then you won't get targeted
by anyone else, either.
And you might even have
a good time now and then.
[girls giggling]
- [YUJI] Knock it off.
- Hmm?
[sighs]
[AMAI]
Here comes another idiot.
[STUDENT 1] Is that uniform
from West Middle?
[chuckles]
You're in middle school?
[STUDENT 2] You need
to learn some respect!
We're gonna teach you a lesson!
[panting]
Down you go!
Huh?
[grunting]
[STUDENT 1] Huh?
[metal rod scraping]
You really shouldn't be
so violent!
[grunts]
[grunting]
- [groans]
- [grunts]
Huh? [groaning]
[groans]
[students coughing and groaning]
[YUJI] And you?
[heart thumping]
Y-you... you mean me?
[MEGUMI] Hey.
[REMI] What now?
[MEGUMI] You aren't planning
to go through Ikebukuro
to reach Shinjuku, are you?
That area's rich
with supplies.
We're more likely
to encounter other players.
[REMI] There are two reasons
for going this way.
The route is easy to follow,
and I happen
to have a base nearby.
I'm just dying
to take a shower.
I haven't had a chance
to rest since yesterday.
[AMAI] Higuruma uses
this theater as his base.
Assuming he hasn't moved,
that is.
Ah, cool.
You've been a big help, man.
Thank you.
Uh, wait a minute.
Hold up, don't go.
[YUJI] Hmm? What is it?
[AMAI]
Uh, you're seriously going in?
[YUJI] Well, I'd have preferred
to go in with my friend,
but I'm in a hurry.
I never actually met
Higuruma myself.
But I once saw him beat Haba
to a pulp right in front of me.
Then I'll totally be okay.
I beat propeller head, too.
Which means I'll
at least be able to run away.
[Amai hesitates]
[YUJI] See you later.
[AMAI] Uh...
- [heart thumping]
- Tell him.
Come on, man, tell him!
You should stop doing this.
I'm sorry...
[door creaks]
...Itadori.
It's about time, Higuruma.
[chuckles]
Sorry, I guess we were
both expecting to see him.
I'm Reggie.
And she deceived you.
Don't give me that look.
You don't scare me for a second.
- And just so you know, Reggie--
- [MEGUMI] Quiet!
[snarls]
[chuckles excitedly]
I'm wasting my time here.
[HIGURUMA] Who's there?
What are you doing here?
[YUJI] I could ask you that.
Ah.
Ever have the chance
to take a bath
while still fully clothed?
[YUJI] Never.
Surprisingly, it feels better
than I expected it would.
You know...
back when I was
in elementary school,
I loved our safety classes
on swimming in clothes.
So many things have stopped
mattering to me lately.
So I've been challenging myself
to try things I assumed
I shouldn't be doing.
I've basically
gone off the rails
after hitting my mid-30s.
Funny, huh?
I guess it's kind of amusing.
You're Higuruma, right?
In the flesh.
I'm here to talk.
[HIGURUMA] Hold on.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
I happen to be a lawyer.
For 30 minutes,
I charged 5,000 yen to consult.
So either pay up or shut up.
Huh?
[chuckles]
I'm just kidding.
I wanted to see
what it feels like
to be a cutthroat lawyer.
[laughs]
[YUJI] I see.
What's this guy doing?
You still have a hundred points,
don't you?
He's not a past sorcerer
who's been incarnated.
He's a modern sorcerer
whose technique was activated.
We can talk it out.
There's room for negotiation.
[REGGIE] Okay,
you passed the test
- with flying colors.
- [MEGUMI] Huh?
[REGGIE] You've got more
than enough, I can tell.
That's quite the shikigami
you have there.
I bet you're strong.
If you were weak,
I'd just kill you
as another average mark.
But you're good.
Let's work together.
[REMI] What gives?
I didn't agree to this!
[MEGUMI] What are you proposing?
[REGGIE] How much
do you actually know so far
about this Culling Game?
[MEGUMI] It's a ritual.
It uses the cursed energy
of the players
inside the barriers
to ferry the people of Japan
to the other side.
And then changes them
into something inhuman.
Guess I should stay quiet
about Tengen.
[REGGIE] Really?
- Do you know Kenjaku, then?
- [gasps]
[MEGUMI] I knew there had
to be at least one sorcerer
connected to Kenjaku
in this game.
[YUJI] Uh, so,
to be frank,
we need your help.
We wanna stop
the Culling Game.
Uh, time out.
When I say stop the game,
I mean stop
the obligated killing.
If we could use
your hundred points,
we'd be able
to add a new rule to the game.
[HIGURUMA] Permit me
to be frank as well.
I refuse.
[YUJI] Is that another joke?
No. I just sense huge potential
in letting the Culling Game
continue as is.
Sometimes the law is powerless.
However, think about the rules
of this Culling Game.
If the power
I've been granted is real,
then those rules must be, too.
[REGGIE] I think all your talk
about players' cursed energy
being used inside the barriers,
it's probably just a bluff.
[MEGUMI] A bluff?
[REGGIE] Well, less of a bluff,
and more like you're
describing Plan B or C.
Here's three reasons why.
The number of players,
the strength gap
between players,
and the barriers' rules.
If roughly 1,000 people
were equally split up
between the 10 colonies,
that would come out
to 100 people per colony.
However,
among the players are sorcerers
like Kashimo or Higuruma,
who are much stronger
than the rest.
Those two alone
have already culled
60 sorcerers between them.
And I bet you, there's
a sorcerer just like them
in each of the other colonies.
So then, the weak
are weeded out early on.
Does that mean the Culling Game
ends as a stalemate?
He's confirmed my suspicions.
The colony's been too quiet.
It already has.
Well, at least it has
here in Tokyo Number One.
On top of that,
there's the teleportation,
when people enter the colonies.
It serves to spread out players
as they enter the game.
But its main goal
is likely to encourage
an early second awakening
of modern sorcerers.
There are some who die
during the teleportation, too.
Now, if he was really trying
to use the players'
cursed energy,
then he would probably want
the greatest number of sorcerers
to fight
for the longest time possible.
[HIGURUMA] What if people who
broke the rules were punished,
not with the need
of indictments,
prosecutions or arguments
at trials,
but by pure physics instead?
Wouldn't that be wonderful?
I'll grant you, there's issues
with the current rules,
but I wanna watch
over the system
serving as a basis
for this game.
It'll ruin everything
if it ends too soon.
I'd especially love
to witness at least once,
the stripping of a technique
mentioned in rules two
and eight.
And it's better for the rules
if being stripped
means death, too.
The Culling Game itself
is considered a ritual.
If we take too long,
every person in this nation
will die.
That's not true.
The Culling Game insists
on its own ongoing longevity.
[YUJI] I don't really
get that part either!
I'll rephrase it, then.
Let me use your 100 points,
Higuruma!
[HIGURUMA]
Have you ever killed someone
who really ticked you off?
[♪ energetic rock music playing]
Feels better than I expected.
A helluva lot better.
[YUJI] A shikigami?
Higuruma has a hundred points.
He might have killed
20 sorcerers already.
I can't just recklessly jump in.
I'll go on defense.
But I'll be ready
to respond to any attack.
Domain Expansion.
Deadly Sentencing.
[gavel banging]
[REGGIE] The idea
of a rule not hindering
the continuation of the game,
it's just a cover
for the real plan.
Mark my words.
When only the strong remain,
Kenjaku is going to drop a bomb
on this competition.
And the Culling Game
will fulfill its purpose.
[explosion]
[♪ closing theme song playing]
[HIGURUMA] Now,
make your argument.
[YUJI]
What if I'm judged guilty?
[HIGURUMA] Judgeman,
please begin.
[YUJI] You mean I can lie?
[HIGURUMA] You get one chance
to make a statement.
[YUJI]
I can't control cursed energy!
[HIGURUMA] How can he
hold his own against me
without cursed energy?
[YUJI] I want a retrial!
One more time!